# 介绍

## OpenGL

computation can be done using single instruction multiple data (SIMD) parallelism.

OpenGL is more about organizing your data and your shaders, and less about 3D computer graphics.

In OpenGL we represent our geometry as a collection of triangles. On the one hand, triangles are simple enough to be processed very efficiently by OpenGL, while on the other hand, using collections of many triangles, we can approximate surfaces with complicated shapes. 

the computation in OpenGL determines the screen position for each vertex of each of the triangles, figures out which screen dots, called pixels, lie within each triangle, and then performs some computation to determine the desired color of that pixel. 

Each triangle is made up of 3 vertices. We associate some numerical data with each vertex. Each such data item is called an attribute. At the very least, we need to specify the location of the vertex (using 2 numbers for 2D geometry or 3 numbers for 3D geometry). We can use other attributes to associate other kinds of data with our vertices that we will use to determine their ultimate appearances.

Transmitting the vertex data from the CPU to the graphics hardware (the GPU) is an expensive process, so it is typically done as infrequently as possible. There are specific API calls to transfer vertex data over to OpenGL which stores this data in a vertex buffer.

Once the vertex data has been given to OpenGL, at any subsequent time we can send a *draw* call to OpenGL. This commands OpenGL to walk down the appropriate vertex buffers and draw each vertex triplet as a triangle.

Once the vertex shader has computed the final position of the vertex on the screen, it assigns this value to the the reserved output variable called **gl_Position**.

The vertex shader can also output other variables that will be used by the fragment shader to determine the final color of each pixel covered by the triangle. These outputs are called varying variables.

OpenGL’s next job is to draw each triangle on the screen. This step is called rasterization. For each triangle, it uses the three vertex positions to place the triangle on the screen. It then computes which of the pixels on the screen are inside of this triangle. For each such pixel, the rasterizer computes an interpolated value for each of the varying variables. This means that the value for each varying variable is set by blending the three values associated with the triangle’s vertices. The blending ratios used are related to the pixel’s distance to each of the three vertices. Because rasterization is such a specialized and highly optimized operation, this step has not been made programmable.

A fragment shader is another program that you write in the GLSL language and hand off to OpenGL. The job of the fragment shader is to determine the drawn color of the pixel based on the information passed to it as varying and uniform variables. 
